.\" Last modified by jre <jre-phoenix@users.sourceforge.net>:
.\" Sun May  3 11:36:42 CEST 2009
.\" Sun Nov 18 00:14:09 CET 2007: jre <jre-phoenix@users.sourceforge.net>
.\" based on the moblock man page started by sloter <laurent at sloter.org>
.\"
.\"   This documentation is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"   (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"   This documentation is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License with
.\"   the Debian GNU/Linux distribution in file /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL;
.\"   if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place,
.\"   Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.TH BLOCKCONTROL 1 "2009-08-21" "Version 1.6" "pglcmd Manual"

.SH NAME
pglcmd \- handling IP blockers.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pglcmd
OPTION
.PP
.B pglcmd
search PATTERN

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pglcmd 
is designed to do all tasks related to pgl:
.IP \(em 3
Start and stop pgl. Or let init do this automatically.
.IP \(em 3
Update your blocklist from online sources and local blocklists. Or let cron do
this automatically on a regular basis. Use backups if anything goes wrong.
.IP \(em 3
Examine your selected blocklists by searching the single blocklists for
keywords.
.IP \(em 3
Remove lines by keyword from the blocklists.
.IP \(em 3
Handle your iptables rules: use a default setup, easily allow all traffic on
specific ports and use an allow list, or add your own sophisticated iptables
rules.
.IP \(em 3
Allow all LAN traffic and the DNS server automatically. If you are on a public
LAN, you probably want to disable this feature.
.IP \(em 3
Check the status and test the IP block daemon.
.IP \(em 3
A watchdog monitors the IP block daemon.
.IP \(em 3
Detects if kernel modules are needed and loads them if necessary.
.IP \(em 3
Set verbosity and logging options.
.IP \(em 3
Provides LSB 3.1 compatible init script.
.IP \(em 3
Daily rotation of the logfiles.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B start
inserts iptables rules, starts the IP block daemon and the watchdog. If the
blocklist configuration changed, rebuilds the master blocklist.
.TP
.B stop
deletes iptables rules and stops the IP block daemon.
.TP
.B start_wd
starts the watchdog. Don´t start pglcmd.wd directly. Remember that per
default the watchdog gets started automatically on start. The watchdog checks in
regular intervals (per default 5 minutes) if some of the necessary iptables
rules exist and if the daemon is responsive. If one of these tests fails, it
restarts pglcmd. This is especially useful, if you have other firewall
applications running, because they often mess up the iptables rules, which can
be fixed by restarting pglcmd. Unfortunately this manual action is often
forgotten.
.TP
.B stop_wd
stops the watchdog.
.TP
.B restart
restarts the IP block daemon.
.TP
.B reload
rebuilds the master blocklist and reloads the IP block daemon if it is running.
.TP
.B update
updates the blocklists, rebuilds the master blocklist and reloads the IP block
daemon.
.TP
.B status
gives the iptables settings and the status of the IP block daemon.
.TP
.B test
does a simple test to check if the IP block daemon is working (pings a random
IP in the blocklist and checks if this IP was logged in the block daemons
logfile and if it answered).
.TP
.B search
Outputs the occurences of a keyword and the names of the single blocklists.
.TP
.B stats
reports MoBlock's statistics.
.TP
.B reset_stats
resets MoBlock's statistics.
.TP
.B show_config
shows the current configuration settings.
.TP
Note for blocklist operations: When the master blocklist is built, missing
single blocklists are downloaded. If any blocklist fails to download, and if
there is no old version available, the operation aborts. If a downloaded
blocklist fails to extract, it is deleted and the operation aborts.

.SH CONFIGURATION
.P
Blocklists are configured in \fIblocklists.list\fR
(/etc/pgl/blocklists.list).
.P
The allow list is \fIallow.p2p\fR (/etc/pgl/allow.p2p). Per default,
the allowlist is used for incoming and outgoing connections. If desired
different allow lists for incoming, outgoing and forward connections may be
used.
.P
The rest is done in \fIpglcmd.conf\fR
(/etc/pgl/pglcmd.conf). Refer to pglcmd.defaults
(/usr/lib/pgl/pglcmd.defaults) for the complete set of possible
configuration variables with comments.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fIpglcmd status\fR gives you the following return values:
.IP
.B 0
IP block daemon is running
.br
.B 1
IP block daemon is dead and pidfile exists
.br
.B 3
IP block daemon is not running
.br
.B 4
IP block daemon is unknown
.PP
\fIpglcmd test\fR gives you the following return values:
.IP
.B 0
test succeeded
.br
.B 1
test failed
.br
.B 2
not testable
.PP

.SH EXIT STATUS 
.IP
.B 2
The IP block daemon was started with bad arguments
.br
.B 4
User is not root
.br
.B 5
The IP block daemon is not installed
.br
.B 6
pglcmd is not configured correctly
.br
.B 7
File is missing/has wrong mode
.br
.B 8
iptables command failed
.br
.B 9
blocklist is not available or blocklist archive is corrupted
.br
.B 66
Directory is missing
.br
.B 170
External binary or function is missing
.br
.B 171
Testhost (serving the default blocklists) is not reachable

.SH FILES
.IP /usr/bin/pglcmd
The shell script \fBpglcmd\fR.
.IP /usr/lib/pgl/pglcmd.main
The core of all executable scripts.
.IP /usr/lib/pgl/pglcmd.defaults
Default settings for all variables and pathnames.
.IP /usr/lib/pgl/pglcmd.lib
Library for pglcmd.main.
.IP /etc/pgl/blocklists.list
Lists all blocklists that are used (and downloaded) by \fBpglcmd\fR
for use by the IP block daemon.
.IP /etc/pgl/pglcmd.conf
The user configuration file for \fBpglcmd\fR.
.IP /etc/pgl/allow.p2p
The allow list in the peerguardian .p2p text format.
.IP /etc/network/if-up.d/pglcmd
Gets executed whenever a network interface is brought up to make sure that the
automatic whitelisting of LAN traffic and the DNS server does work.
.IP /etc/pgl/[NAME]insert.sh
Script to insert custom iptables rules. Any script in /etc/pgl/ (the
directory is defined in IPTABLES_CUSTOM_DIR) that ends in insert.sh will be
executed on every "pglcmd start", if IPTABLES_SETTINGS="1" or "2" is
configured.
.IP /etc/pgl/[NAME]remove.sh
Script to delete custom iptables rules. Any script in /etc/pgl/ (the
directory is defined in IPTABLES_CUSTOM_DIR) that ends in remove.sh will be
executed on every "pglcmd stop", if IPTABLES_SETTINGS="1" or "2" is
configured.
.IP /etc/init.d/pglcmd
Starts the IP block daemon automatically on every bootup.
.IP /etc/cron.daily/pglcmd
Updates the blocklists automatically.
.IP /etc/logrotate.d/pglcmd
Rotates the logfiles daily.
.IP /var/lib/pgl/ipfilter.dat
The master blocklist used by the IP block daemon if the blocklist is in eMule
ipfilter.dat format.
.IP /var/lib/pgl/guarding.p2b
The master blocklist used by the IP block daemon if the blocklist is in
peerguardian .p2b v2 binary format.
.IP /var/lib/pgl/guarding.p2p
The master blocklist used by the IP block daemon if the blocklist is in
peerguardian .p2p text format.
.IP /var/log/pglcmd.log
The log file of the \fBpglcmd\fR script. This file contains amongst
other things about starting/stopping the IP block daemon and updating the
blocklists.
.IP /var/spool/pgl
The single blocklists are downloaded and manipulated in subfolders of this
folder.

.SH WARNING: Users with firewall (iptables rules)
\fBpgl\fR does not conflict with other firewalls. But if you use them, you have
to take special care to  avoid severe conflicts. Make sure the following three
conditions hold:
.IP \(em 3
pgl marks non-matched (IP is not in the blocklist) packets. (The marking feature
is on per default.)
.IP \(em 3
Other firewalls do not mark packets.
.IP \(em 3
pglcmd is started after other firewalls. If other firewalls are started/
reloaded after pglcmd, then you need to restart pglcmd again. You
will be fine, if the iptables rules which send traffic to the iptables chains
(pgl_in, pgl_out and pgl_fwd) stand before all other
iptables rules which ACCEPT traffic.
.P
.BR "pglcmd.wd" "(1)" 
restarts pglcmd if it detects any problems.
But the manual restart is still recommended.

.SH NOTES
.PP
By default the IP block daemon will be started at every system boot up and the
blocklists will be updated once a day.

.SH TECHNICAL NOTE
.PP
pgld checks traffic (packets) that is sent to the iptables
NFQUEUE (or the deprecated QUEUE) target. If the necessary support is not built
in the kernel directly, pglcmd will load the necessary kernel modules.
Up to MoBlock 0.8 packets that do not match the blocklist are ACCEPTed and
packets that match the blocklist are DROPped.
MoBlock (since 0.9) and NFBlock can also MARK packets, so that iptables rules
that match this mark decide what happens with these packets. Per default
marking is on.
Marked packets repeat the hook function (NF_REPEAT). So they are sent back to
the head of the iptables chain again. A packet may only bear one mark, so there
mustn't be any other applications / iptables rules that mark packets. Otherwise
the setup will not work and packets will loop forever.
"Marked block" outgoing packets will be REJECTED, "Marked block" incoming and 
forwarded packets will be DROPped. "Marked accept" packets will be ignored, so
other iptables rules decide what happens to them.

.SH HOMEPAGES
.PP
MoBlock - \fIhttp://moblock.berlios.de/\fR
.PP
NFBlock - \fIhttp://sites.google.com/site/makovick/nfblockd-daemon\fR
.PP
pglcmd - \fIhttp://moblock-deb.sourceforge.net/\fR
.PP
PeerGuardian - \fIhttp://phoenixlabs.org/\fR

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
pglcmd was written by jre <jre-phoenix at users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
This man page was written by sloter <laurent at sloter.org> and
jre <jre-phoenix at users.sourceforge.net>
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "moblock" "(1), "
.BR "/usr/share/doc/pglcmd/README.blocklists" ", "
.BR "mobloquer" "(1), "
.BR "iptables" "(8)"
