
.\" Sun May  3 11:24:22 CEST 2009: jre <jre-phoenix@users.sourceforge.net>
.\"
.\"   This documentation is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"   (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"   This documentation is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License with
.\"   the Debian GNU/Linux distribution in file /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL;
.\"   if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place,
.\"   Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.TH BLOCKCONTROL 1 "2009-05-03" "Version 1.4" "blockcontrol Manual"

.SH NAME
blockcontrol.watchdog \- monitor IP blockers.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B blockcontrol.watchdog
.P
NOTE: blockcontrol.watchdog is started and stopped automatically with
blockcontrol. So there should be no need to do this manually.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B blockcontrol.watchdog 
checks in regular intervals (per default 5 minutes) if some of the necessary
iptables rules exist and if the daemon is responsive. If one of these tests
fails, it restarts blockcontrol.

This is especially useful, if you have other firewall applications running,
because they often mess up the iptables rules, which can be fixed by restarting
blockcontrol. Unfortunately this manual action is often forgotten.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Configure the watchdog in \fIblockcontrol.conf\fR 
(/etc/blockcontrol/blockcontrol.conf). Refer to blockcontrol.defaults
(/usr/lib/blockcontrol/blockcontrol.defaults) for the complete set of possible
configuration variables with comments. You can turn it on/off, specify the check
interval in seconds and specify its path.

.SH FILES
.IP /usr/bin/blockcontrol.watchdog

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "blockcontrol" "(1)"
