.\" Last modified by jre <jre-phoenix@users.sourceforge.net>:
.\" Thu Jan  8 19:49:41 CET 2009
.\" Sun Nov 18 00:14:09 CET 2007: jre <jre-phoenix@users.sourceforge.net>
.\"
.\"   This documentation is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\"   it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\"   the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\"   (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\"   This documentation is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\"   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\"   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\"   GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\"   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License with
.\"   the Debian GNU/Linux distribution in file /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL;
.\"   if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place,
.\"   Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA
.TH MOBLOCK-CONTROL 1 "2009-01-08" "Version 1.2" "moblock-control Manual"

.SH NAME
moblock-control \- handling moblock.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moblock-control
OPTION

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B moblock-control 
is designed to do all tasks related to MoBlock:
.IP \(em 3
Start and stop MoBlock. Or let init do this automatically.
.IP \(em 3
Update your blocklist from online sources and local blocklists. Or let cron do
this automatically on a regular basis.
.IP \(em 3
Remove lines by keyword from the blocklists.
.IP \(em 3
Handle your iptables rules: use a default setup, easily allow all traffic on
specific ports and use an allow list, or add your own sophisticated iptables
rules.
.IP \(em 3
Allow all LAN traffic automatically. This feature is still experimental. If you
are on a public LAN, you probably want to disable this feature.
.IP \(em 3
Check the status and test MoBlock.
.IP \(em 3
Detects if kernel modules are needed and loads them if necessary.
.IP \(em 3
Set verbosity and logging options.
.IP \(em 3
Provides LSB 3.1 compatible init script.
.IP \(em 3
Daily rotation of the logfiles.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B start
inserts iptables rules and starts moblock
.TP
.B stop
deletes iptables rules and stops moblock
.TP
.B restart
restarts moblock
.TP
.B reload
rebuilds the blocklist and reloads moblock if it is running. If a downloaded
blocklist in the "used" directory fails to extract it is deleted and the reload
aborts.
.TP
.B update
updates the blocklists and reloads moblock. If any blocklist fails to download
and if there is no old version available the update aborts.
.TP
.B status
gives the iptables settings and the status of moblock.
.TP
.B test
does a simple test to check if MoBlock is working (pings the first IP in the
blocklist and checks if this IP was blocked via /var/log/moblock.log).
.TP
.B stats
reports MoBlock's statistics.
.TP
.B reset_stats
resets MoBlock's statistics.
.TP
.B show_config
shows the current configuration setting

.SH CONFIGURATION
Blocklists are configured in \fIblocklists.list\fR
(/etc/moblock/blocklists.list). The allow list is \fIallow.p2p\fR
(/etc/moblock/allow.p2p). Per default, the allowlist is
used for incoming and outgoing connections. If desired different allow lists for
incoming, outgoing and forward connections may be used.
.P
The rest is done in \fImoblock.conf\fR.
.P
moblock-control first reads its defaults from \fImoblock-control.defaults\fR 
(/usr/lib/moblock-control/moblock-control.defaults), then the configuration file
\fImoblock.conf\fR (/etc/moblock/moblock.conf) and last \fImoblock.default\fR
(/etc/default/moblock). The latter overwrites the previous values. It is
recommended to make all user changes in \fImoblock.default\fR to ease updates.

.SH RETURN VALUES
\fImoblock-control status\fR gives you the following return values:
.IP
.B 0
moblock is running
.br
.B 1
moblock is dead and /var/run/moblock.pid exists
.br
.B 3
moblock is not running
.br
.B 4
moblock is unknown
.PP
\fImoblock-control test\fR gives you the following return values:
.IP
.B 0
test succeeded
.br
.B 1
test failed
.br
.B 2
not testable
.PP

.SH EXIT STATUS 
.IP
.B 2
The MoBlock daemon was started with bad arguments
.br
.B 4
User is not root
.br
.B 5
The MoBlock daemon is not installed
.br
.B 6
moblock-control is not configured correctly
.br
.B 7
File is missing/has wrong mode
.br
.B 8
iptables command failed
.br
.B 9
blocklist is not available or blocklist archive is corrupted
.br
.B 66
Directory is missing
.br
.B 170
External binary or function is missing
.br
.B 171
Testhost (serving the default blocklists) is not reachable

.SH FILES
.IP /usr/bin/moblock-control
The shell script \fBmoblock-control\fR.
.IP /usr/lib/moblock-control/moblock-control.defaults
Default settings for all variables and pathnames.
.IP /usr/lib/moblock-control/moblock-control.lib
Library for moblock-control, moblock.if-up, cron.daily and init.
.IP /etc/moblock/blocklists.list
Lists all blocklists that are used (and downloaded) by \fBmoblock-control\fR
for use by \fBmoblock\fR.
.IP /etc/moblock/moblock.conf
The configuration file moblock.conf for \fBmoblock-control\fR. It contains
variables for the automatic start and update, iptables handling, IP and port
whitelisting and the paths of all files.
.IP /etc/default/moblock
The default configuration file moblock.default for \fBmoblock-control\fR
(overwrites values from moblock.conf). It is recommended to set non-default
values here to ease updates.
.BR mobloquer (1)
saves its configuration here, too.
.IP /etc/moblock/allow.p2p
The allow list in the peerguardian .p2p text format.
.IP /etc/network/if-up.d/moblock
Gets executed whenever a network interface is brought up to make sure that the
automatic whitelisting of traffic in the LAN does work.
.IP /etc/moblock/iptables-custom-insert.sh
Custom iptables insertion script. This script will be executed on every
\fI"moblock-control start"\fR if IPTABLES_SETTINGS="1" or "2" is configured.
.IP /etc/moblock/iptables-custom-remove.sh
Custom iptables deletion script. See above.
.IP /etc/init.d/moblock
Starts moblock automatically on every bootup.
.IP /etc/cron.daily/moblock
Updates the blocklists automatically.
.IP /etc/logrotate.d/moblock-control
Rotates the logfiles daily.
.IP /var/lib/moblock/ipfilter.dat
The master blocklist used by \fBmoblock\fR if the blocklist is in eMule
ipfilter.dat format.
.IP /var/lib/moblock/guarding.p2b
The master blocklist used by \fBmoblock\fR if the blocklist is in
peerguardian .p2b v2 binary format.
.IP /var/lib/moblock/guarding.p2p
The master blocklist used by \fBmoblock\fR if the blocklist is in
peerguardian .p2p text format.
.IP /var/log/moblock-control.log
The log file of the \fBmoblock-control\fR script. This file contains amongst
other things about starting/stopping \fBmoblock\fR and updating the blocklists.
.IP /var/spool/moblock
Blocklists are downloaded to subfolders of this folder.

.SH WARNING: Users with firewall (iptables rules)
Since version 0.9, \fBMoBlock\fR no longer conflicts with other firewalls. Make
sure the following three conditions hold:
.IP \(em 3
MoBlock marks non-matched (IP is not in the blocklist) packets. (The marking
feature is on per default.)
.IP \(em 3
Other firewalls do not mark packets.
.IP \(em 3
MoBlock is started after other firewalls. If other firewalls are
started/reloaded after MoBlock, then you need to restart MoBlock again. You will
be fine, if the iptables rules which send  traffic to MoBlock's iptables chains
(moblock_in, moblock_out and moblock_fw) stand before all other iptables rules
which ACCEPT traffic.

.SH NOTES
.PP
By default MoBlock will be started at every system boot up and the blocklists
will be updated once a day.

.SH HOMEPAGE
.PP
MoBlock - \fIhttp://moblock.berlios.de/\fR
.PP
moblock-control - \fIhttp://moblock-deb.sourceforge.net/\fR
.PP
PeerGuardian - \fIhttp://phoenixlabs.org/\fR

.SH AUTHORS
.PP
moblock-control was written by jre <jre-phoenix at users.sourceforge.net>.
.PP
This man page was written by sloter and jre <jre-phoenix at users.sourceforge.net>
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "moblock" "(1), "
.BR "/usr/share/doc/moblock/README.blocklists" ", "
.BR "mobloquer" "(1), "
.BR "iptables" "(8)"
